+++
title = " Milestone 1"
date = 2023-03-13T14:30:25+05:30
weight = 5
chapter = true
pre = "<b>7.1</b>"
+++

# Milestone 1

**Milestone 1:** ABHA creation and capture & verification for seamless patient registration

## Test Cases

The Milestone 1 test cases are applicable to All the stakeholders.

S.No|Function|Functionality|Test Case|Steps To Be Executed|
| -- | ---| ----- | ----- | ----- |
1.1|ABHA Creation Through Aadhaar OTP|{{% badge %}}Mandatory{{% /badge %}} Create ABHA Option (CRT_ABHA_101)|The system must provide an option to create ABHA through Aadhaar OTP|
1.2|ABHA Creation Through Aadhaar OTP|{{% badge %}}Mandatory{{% /badge %}} Consent collection (CRT_ABHA_102)|The system must display the  consent language/ disclaimer language and collect user's consent as per the ABDM published  consent.|1. Read consent language. 2. Agree to the consent language (through 'I agree' checkbox or any other form of signature)|
||ABHA Creation Through Aadhaar OTP|{{% badge %}}Optional{{% /badge %}} Consent collection should be multilingual  (CRT_ABHA_103)|The system should be able to provide the consent in languages other than English also|1. Read consent language. 2. Agree to the consent language (through 'I agree' checkbox or any other form of signature)|
1.3|ABHA Creation Through Aadhaar OTP|{{% badge %}}Mandatory{{% /badge %}} Aadhaar collection and Error Message (CRT_ABHA_104)|System must allow the user to enter Aadhaar Number and the system will display an error message for invalid Aadhaar Number| Enter Aadhaar number|
1.4|ABHA Creation Through Aadhaar OTP|{{% badge %}}Mandatory{{% /badge %}} Aadhaar OTP Collection (CRT_ABHA_105)|User receives Aadhaar OTP and System must allow the user to enter Aadhaar OTP|1. Receive OTP on mobile number registered with Aadhaar. 2. Enter Aadhaar OTP|
1.5|ABHA Creation Through Aadhaar OTP|{{% badge %}}Mandatory{{% /badge %}} Resend OTP (CRT_ABHA_106)|System may activate the Resend OTP button atleast 2 times after 60 seconds|1. Click on Resend OTP Button. 2. Receive OTP on mobile|
1.6|ABHA Creation Through Aadhaar OTP|{{% badge %}}Mandatory{{% /badge %}} OTP based Aadhaar Authentication (CRT_ABHA_107)|System must verify the OTP|Click on verify button(For Resend and Send). It is recommended that verify button be auto enabled|
1.7|ABHA Creation Through Aadhaar OTP|{{% badge %}}Optional{{% /badge %}} Communication Mobile Number (CRT_ABHA_108)|1. If communication mobile number is same as Aadhaar linked mobile number then it should directly go to ABHA  creation screen. 2. Alternatively, Integrators may also prompt for OTP  again from the user and then post verification of OTP user can go to ABHA  creation screen.| System will check entered mobile is same as Aadhaar linked mobile number. If returns true then user will directed to ABHA  creation screen.|
1.8|ABHA Creation Through Aadhaar OTP|{{% badge %}}Mandatory{{% /badge %}} Mobile Number Verification (CRT_ABHA_109)|If communication mobile number is not same as Aadhaar linked mobile number then system must ask for the OTP to verify comuncation mobile number.|System must verify the mobile number. 1. System must send OTP on mobile number. 2. User enters the OTP and clicks on verify. 3. In case of incorrect OTP| the system displays an error. 4. In case of correct OTP| the system allows the user to proceed|
||ABHA Creation Through Aadhaar OTP|{{% badge %}}Mandatory{{% /badge %}}for Private /Government(Suggested for integrators program using demo auth). Suggested ABHA Address (CRT_ABHA_112)|The system should allow the user to select  the ABHA  address giving atleast 3 available suggestions |1. Governemnt integrator may use the default ABHA  address. 2. System should have a provision for private integrators to proceed with the suggested ABHA  and to create a new ABHA  address.|
1.9|ABHA Creation Through Aadhaar OTP|{{% badge %}}Mandatory{{% /badge %}} Display of ABHA Number (CRT_ABHA_113)|System must display the created ABHA Number|1. System shows the 14-digit ABHA number and ABHA  address  generated|
1.10|ABHA Creation Through Aadhaar OTP|{{% badge %}}Mandatory{{% /badge %}} for Private. View and Download ABHA details (If integrators is generating ABHA card) (CRT_ABHA_114)|System must have a provision to View / Download ABHA card |1. System should show the user their ABHA Card. 2. ABHA Card should be generated by API and should contain: a. ABHA Number (Mandatory). b. User Photo-Optional. c. ABHA QR code. d. date of birth and gender. e. ABHA Address|
||ABHA Creation Through Aadhaar OTP|{{% badge %}}Mandatory & Optional{{% /badge %}} Either of the test cases CRT_ABHA_114 or CRT_ABHA_115 is mandatory for Governement Optional for Private. View and Download ABHA details. (If integrators  is not  generating ABHA card)  (CRT_ABHA_115)| If Integrator is not generating ABHA card.|1. If Integrator is not generating ABHA card then They print the mentioned information on their own card. a. ABHA Number (Mandatory). b. ABHA Address|
2.1|ABHA Creation Through Aadhaar Biometric|{{% badge %}}Optional{{% /badge %}}Create ABHA Option (CRT_ABHA_201)|The system must provide an option to create ABHA through Aadhaar Biometric|
2.2|ABHA Creation Through Aadhaar Biometric|{{% badge %}}Optional{{% /badge %}} Consent collection (CRT_ABHA_202)| The system must display the  consent language/ disclaimer language and collect user's consent as per the ABDM published  consent. |1. Read consent language. 2. Agree to the consent language (through 'I agree' checkbox or any other form of signature)|
||ABHA Creation Through Aadhaar Biometric|{{% badge %}}Optional{{% /badge %}} Consent collection should be multilingual  (CRT_ABHA_203)|The system should be able to provide the consent in languages other than English also|1. Read consent language. 2. Agree to the consent language (through 'I agree' checkbox or any other form of signature)|
2.3|ABHA Creation Through Aadhaar Biometric|{{% badge %}}Optional{{% /badge %}} Aadhaar collection and Error Message (CRT_ABHA_204)|System must allow the user to enter Aadhaar Number and the system will display an error message for invalid Aadhaar Number|1. Enter Aadhaar number|
2.4|ABHA Creation Through Aadhaar Biometric|{{% badge %}}Optional{{% /badge %}} Biometric based Aadhaar Authentication (CRT_ABHA_205)|System must verify the biometrics (fingerprint or face) of the user|1. Scan biometrics (Fingerprint). 2. Click on verify button|
2.5|ABHA Creation Through Aadhaar Biometric|{{% badge %}}Optional{{% /badge %}} Communication Mobile Number (CRT_ABHA_206)|1. If communication mobile number is same as Aadhaar linked mobile number then it should directly go to ABHA creation screen. 2. Alternatively, Integrators may also prompt for OTP  again from the user and then post verification of OTP user can go to ABHA  creation screen.| System will check entered mobile is same as Aadhaar linked mobile number. If returns true then user will directed to ABHA  creation screen.|
2.6|ABHA Creation Through Aadhaar Biometric|{{% badge %}}Optional{{% /badge %}} Mobile Number Verification (CRT_ABHA_207)|If communication mobile number is not same as Aadhaar linked mobile number then system must ask for the OTP to verify comuncation mobile number.|System must verify the mobile number. 1. System must send OTP on mobile number. 2. User enters the OTP and clicks on verify. 3. In case of incorrect OTP| the system displays an error. 4. In case of correct OTP| the system allows the user to proceed"|
2.7|ABHA Creation Through Aadhaar Biometric|{{% badge %}}Optional{{% /badge %}} Display of ABHA Number (CRT_ABHA_208)|System must display the created ABHA Number|1. System shows the 14-digit ABHA number and ABHA  address  generated. 2. The Label should read  ABHA Number and not  Health ID|
2.8|ABHA Creation Through Aadhaar Biometric|{{% badge %}}Optional{{% /badge %}} View and Download ABHA details. (If integrators is generating ABHA card)  (CRT_ABHA_209)|System must have a provision to View / Download ABHA card |1. System should show the user their ABHA Card. 2. ABHA Card should be generated by API and should contain: a. ABHA Number (Mandatory). b. User Photo-Optional. c. ABHA QR code.md. date of birth and gender. e. ABHA Address|
||ABHA Creation Through Aadhaar Biometric|{{% badge %}}Optional{{% /badge %}} View and Download ABHA details. (If integrators  is not  generating ABHA card) (CRT_ABHA_210)"| If Integrator is not generating ABHA card.|If Integrator is not generating ABHA card then They print the mentioned information on their own card: a. ABHA Number (Mandatory). b. ABHA Address|
3.1|ABHA Creation Through Demo Auth/ Offline Mode (Avaibale Only for trusted entities. All government Entities are  elligible |{{% badge %}}Mandatory{{% /badge %}} Create ABHA Option (CRT_ABHA_301)|The system must provide an option to create ABHA through Aadhaar Demographic/ Offline Mode|
||ABHA Creation Through Demo Auth/ Offline Mode (Avaibale Only for trusted entities. All    government Entities    are  elligible |{{% badge %}}Mandatory{{% /badge %}} Consent collection (CRT_ABHA_302)| The system must display the  consent language/ disclaimer language and collect user's consent as per the ABDM published  consent.|1. Read consent language. 2. Agree to the consent language (through 'I agree' checkbox or any other form of signature)|
3.2|ABHA Creation Through Demo Auth/ Offline Mode (Avaibale Only for trusted entities. All government Entities are elligible|{{% badge %}}Optional{{% /badge %}} Consent collection should be multilingual  (CRT_ABHA_303)|The system should be able to provide the consent in languages other than English also|1. Read consent language. 2. Agree to the consent language (through 'I agree' checkbox or any other form of signature)|
3.3|ABHA Creation Through Demo Auth/ Offline Mode (Avaibale Only for trusted entities. All government Entities are elligible |{{% badge %}}Optional{{% /badge %}} Aadhaar collection and Error Message (CRT_ABHA_304)|System must allow the user to enter Aadhaar Number and the system will display an error message for invalid Aadhaar Number|Enter Aadhaar number|
3.4|ABHA Creation Through Demo Auth/ Offline Mode (Avaibale Only for trusted entities. All government Entities are  elligible |{{% badge %}}Optional{{% /badge %}} Demographic Information based authentication (CRT_ABHA_305)|System must verify the demographic information of the user against their Aadhaar|Enter name, date of birth and gender as per Aadhaar|
3.5|ABHA Creation Through Demo Auth/ Offline Mode (Avaibale Only for trusted entities. All government Entities are  elligible|{{% badge %}}Optional{{% /badge %}} Profile Completion (CRT_ABHA_306)|System should accepts user's profile information - state, district, photo and mobile number|1. System auto-populates State,district information. 2. Verifies State and District information and enters Photo and mobile number|
3.6|ABHA Creation Through Demo Auth/ Offline Mode (Avaibale Only for trusted entities. All government Entities are  elligible| {{% badge %}}Optional{{% /badge %}} Display of ABHA Number (CRT_ABHA_307)|System must display the created ABHA Number|System shows the 14-digit ABHA number and ABHA  address  generated|
||ABHA Creation Through Demo Auth/ Offline Mode (Avaibale Only for trusted entities. All    government Entities    are  elligible |{{% badge %}}Optional{{% /badge %}} View and Download ABHA details. (If integrators is generating ABHA card)  (CRT_ABHA_308)"|System must have a provision to View / Download ABHA card |1. System should show the user their ABHA Card. 2. ABHA Card should be generated by API and should contain: ABHA Number (Mandatory), User Photo(Optional), ABHA QR code, date of birth and gender, ABHA Address|
3.7|ABHA Creation Through Demo Auth/ Offline Mode (Avaibale Only for trusted entities. All government Entities are  elligible|{{% badge %}}Optional{{% /badge %}} View and Download ABHA details. (If integrators  is not  generating ABHA card)  (CRT_ABHA_309)"| If Integrator is not generating ABHA card.|If Integrator is not generating ABHA card then They print the mentioned information on their own card: ABHA Number (Mandatory), ABHA Address|
4.1|ABHA Creation Through Driving License / PAN|{{% badge %}}Optional{{% /badge %}} Create ABHA Option (CRT_ABHA_401)|The system must provide an option to create ABHA through Driving License / PAN||
||ABHA Creation Through Driving License / PAN|{{% badge %}}Optional{{% /badge %}} Consent collection (CRT_ABHA_402)| The system must display the  consent language/ disclaimer language and collect user's consent as per the ABDM published  consent.|1. Read consent language. 2. Agree to the consent language (through 'I agree' checkbox or any other form of signature)|
4.2|ABHA Creation Through Driving License / PAN|{{% badge %}}Optional{{% /badge %}} Consent collection should be multilingual  (CRT_ABHA_403)|The system should be able to provide the consent in languages other than English also|1. Read consent language. 2. Agree to the consent language (through 'I agree' checkbox or any other form of signature)|
4.3|ABHA Creation Through Driving License / PAN|{{% badge %}}Optional{{% /badge %}} Communication Mobile Number (CRT_ABHA_404)|1. If communication mobile number is same as Aadhaar linked mobile number then it should directly go to ABHA creation screen. 2. Alternatively, Integrators may also prompt for OTP  again from the user and then post verification of OTP user can go to ABHA  creation screen.|System will check entered mobile is same as Aadhaar linked mobile number. If returns true then user will directed to ABHA  creation screen.|
4.4|ABHA Creation Through Driving License / PAN|{{% badge %}}Optional{{% /badge %}} Mobile Number Verification (CRT_ABHA_405)|If communication mobile number is not same as Aadhaar linked mobile number then system must ask for the OTP to verify comuncation mobile number.|System must verify the mobile number. 1. System must send OTP on mobile number. 2. User enters the OTP and clicks on verify. 3. In case of incorrect OTP| the system displays an error. 4. In case of correct OTP| the system allows the user to proceed.|
4.5|ABHA Creation Through Driving License / PAN|{{% badge %}}Optional{{% /badge %}} Document Verification (CRT_ABHA_406)|System must verify the provided document - Driving License / PAN|1. Enter the Driving License / PAN number. 2. Enter name, date of birth and gender as per the document|
4.6|ABHA Creation Through Driving License / PAN|{{% badge %}}Optional{{% /badge %}} Document Upload (CRT_ABHA_407)|System must allow upload of front and back page of the Driving licence/ PAN|1. Upload the front and back page of the document i.e Driving License / PAN.|
4.7|ABHA Creation Through Driving License / PAN|{{% badge %}}Optional{{% /badge %}} Manual Verification and ABHA Creation (CRT_ABHA_408)|System Operator / healthcare worker must manually check the documents - Driving License / PAN|1. A healthcare worker/ system operator manually verifies the Driving License / PAN|
4.8|ABHA Creation Through Driving License / PAN|{{% badge %}}Optional{{% /badge %}} Display of ABHA Number (CRT_ABHA_409)|System must display the created ABHA Number|1. System shows the 14-digit ABHA number and ABHA  address  generated. 2. The Label should read  ABHA Number and not  Health ID|
||ABHA Creation Through Driving License / PAN|{{% badge %}}Optional{{% /badge %}} View and Download ABHA details. (If integrators is generating ABHA card)  (CRT_ABHA_410)|System must have a provision to View / Download ABHA card |1. System should show the user their ABHA Card. 2. ABHA Card should be generated by API and should contain - ABHA Number (Mandatory), User Photo-Optional, ABHA QR code, date of birth and gender, ABHA Address|
4.9|ABHA Creation Through Driving License / PAN|{{% badge %}}Optional{{% /badge %}} View and Download ABHA details.(If integrators  is not  generating ABHA card)  (CRT_ABHA_411)"| If Integrator is not generating ABHA card.|If Integrator is not generating ABHA card then They print the mentioned information on their own card: ABHA Number (Mandatory), ABHA Address|
5.1|ABHA Verification|{{% badge %}}Mandatory{{% /badge %}} ABHA Verification Using ABHA Number/Address and Aadhaar OTP (VRFY_ABHA_101)|System must allow ABHA verification using Aadhaar OTP|1. Share ABHA Number or ABHA Address. 2. Receive OTP on the Aadhaar linked mobile number. 3. Enter the OTP.|
6.1|ABHA Verification|{{% badge %}}Mandatory{{% /badge %}} ABHA Verification Using ABHA Number/Address and Communication Mobile OTP (VRFY_ABHA_201)|System must allow ABHA verification using OTP on Communication Mobile Number|1. Share ABHA Number or ABHA Address. 2. Receive OTP on the Communication mobile number. 3. Enter the OTP|
7.1|ABHA Verification|{{% badge %}}Mandatory{{% /badge %}} ABHA Verification Using ABHA Number/Address and Aadhaar Biometric - Fingerprint (VRFY_ABHA_301)|System must allow ABHA verification using Biometric scan|1. Share ABHA Number or ABHA Address. 2. Scan fingerprint or face|
8.1|ABHA Verification|{{% badge %}}Mandatory{{% /badge %}} ABHA Verification Using Mobile Number and Mobile OTP (VRFY_ABHA_401)|System must allow ABHA retrieval and verification using communication mobile number and OTP|1. Share Mobile Number. 2. Receive OTP on Mobile Number. 3. Enter OTP. 4. Get list of ABHA Numbers linked to the Mobile Number. 5. Select one ABHA Number|
9.1|Reading ABHA Info using ABHA QR Code|{{% badge %}}Optional{{% /badge %}} Reading ABHA Profile Info using ABHA QR Code (VRFY_ABHA_501)|System must allow scanning of ABHA QR code to read the ABHA information|EMR/HMIS scans the user's ABHA QR code|
10.1|Profile Update|{{% badge %}}Optional{{% /badge %}} Mobile Update (PROF_ABHA_601)|System must allow the user to update their Mobile number|1. Enter new mobile number. 2. Enter OTP. 3. Enter Password/ OTP on old mobile number.|
10.2|Profile Update|{{% badge %}}Optional{{% /badge %}} Photo Update (PROF_ABHA_602)|System must allow the user to update their Photo|1. Click on Edit Photo. 2. Upload new photo|
10.3|Profile Update|{{% badge %}}Optional{{% /badge %}} Email Update (PROF_ABHA_603)|System must allow the user to update their Email|1. Enter new Email ID. 2. Enter OTP|
10.4|Profile Update|{{% badge %}}Optional{{% /badge %}} Re-KYC (PROF_ABHA_604)|System must allow the user to perform re-KYC|1. Click on re-KYC option. 2. Enter OTP received on Aadhaar linked mobile number|
10.5|Profile Update|{{% badge %}}Optional{{% /badge %}} Delete ABHA (PROF_ABHA_605)|System must allow the user to Delete/ Deactivate ABHA|1. Click on Delete/ Deactivate ABHA. 2. Enter OTP received on mobile number to confirm deletion/ deactivation. 3. Try to login again using the same ABHA|
9.1|Linking of ABHA Number and ABHA Address|{{% badge %}}Mandatory{{% /badge %}} Linking of ABHA Number and ABHA Address (LINK_ABHA_701)|System should have provision to link the  created ABHA  number with existing ABHA address |1. User will create ABHA  number as deifned in above scenerios. 2. user should be able to link ABHA  number with existing ABHA address |


## ABHA APIs Collection

| S.No. | Purpose | Serial | API | Description
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
1|Registration|1.0.1|v1/auth/cert|Authentication token public certificate. This certificate is also used to encrypt the data.
1.1|Registration Via Aadhaar|1.1.1|v1/registration/aadhaar/generateOtp|Generate Aadhaar OTP on Registered mobile number
||| 1.1.2 |v1/registration/aadhaar/verifyOTP|Verify Aadhaar OTP received on Registered mobile number
|||1.1.3|v1/registration/aadhaar/generateMobileOTP|Generate Mobile OTP for verification.
|||1.1.4|v1/registration/aadhaar/verifyMobileOTP|Verify Mobile OTP in an existing transaction.
|||1.1.5|v1/registration/aadhaar/createHealthIdByAadhar|Create Health ID using pre-verified Aadhaar & Mobile.
|||1.1.6|v1/search/existsByHealthId|Check the ABHA in our system.This API checks ifABHA is reserved/used which includes permanently deleted ABHAs.
1.2|Registration via Mobile|1.2.1|v2/registration/mobile/generateOtp|Generate Mobile OTP to start registration transaction
|||1.2.2|v2/registration/mobile/verifyOtp|Verify Mobile OTP sent as part of registration transaction.
|||1.2.3|v2/registration/mobile/createHidViaMobile|Create ABHA with verified mobile token
|||1.2.4|v2/registration/mobile/resendOtp|Resend Mobile OTP in an existing transaction in case previous OTP is not received.
1.3|Registration via Driving Licence|1.3.1|v2/document/generate/mobile/otp|Generate Mobile OTP
|||1.3.2|v2/document/verify/mobile/otp|Verify Mobile OTP
|||1.3.3|v2/document/validate|Match the provided demographic details against document and check for the already created ABHA or Enrollment number against the document
|||1.3.4|v2/document|Create ABHA using ID documents like Driving Licence
2|Login|2.0.1|v1/auth/cert|Authentication token public certificate. This certificate is also used to encrypt the data.
|||2.0.2|v1/search/searchByHealthId|Check the ABHA in our system.This API checks if ABHA is reserved/used which includes permanently deleted ABHAs.
|||2.0.3|v1/auth/init|Initiate authentication process for given ABHA
2.1|Login via Aadhaar OTP|2.1.1|v1/auth/confirmWithAadhaarOtp|Authentication with Aadhaar OTP based auth transaction
2.2|Login via Mobilr OTP|2.2.1|v1/auth/confirmWithMobileOTP|Authentication with Mobile OTP based auth transaction.
2.3|Login via Password|2.3.1|v1/auth/authPassword|Authenticate using ABHA and password
3|Forgot ABHA|3.0.1|v1/auth/cert|Authentication token public certificate. This certificate is also used to encrypt the data.
|||3.0.2|v1/search/searchByHealthId|Check the ABHA in our system.This API checks if ABHA is reserved/used which includes permanently deleted ABHAs.
3.1|Retrieve ABHA via Aadhaar|3.1.1|v2/auth/reactivate/init|Initiate authentication for reactivation of ABHA
|||3.1.2|v2/auth/reactivate|Confirm reactivation transaction with aadhar or mobile otp
3.2|Retrieve Health ID via Mobile|3.2.1|v2/auth/reactivate/init|Initiate authentication for reactivation of  ABHA
|||3.2.2|v2/auth/reactivate|Confirm reactivation txn with aadhar or mobile otp
3.3|Retrieve Health ID via Password|3.3.1|v2/auth/reactivate/init|Initiate authentication for reactivation of  ABHA
4|Profile|||
4.1|Get Profile|4.1.1|v1/account/profile|Get account information
5|Get QR code|5.1.1|v1/account/qrCode|Get Quick Response code in PNG format for this account.
6|Edit Profile|||
6.1|Update Password|||
6.1.1|Update Password Via Aadhaar Otp|6.1.1.1|v1/account/change/passwd/generateAadhaarOTP|Generate Aadhaar OTP on Registered mobile number.
|||6.1.1.2|v1/account/change/passwd/byAadhaar|Change password via Aadhar for ABHA
|||6.1.1.3|v1/account/logout|Logout
6.1.2|Update Password Via Password|6.1.2.1|v1/account/change/password|Change password via password for ABHA
|||6.1.2.2|v1/account/logout|Logout 
6.1.3|Update Password Via Mobile Otp|6.1.3.1|v1/account/change/passwd/generateMobileOTP|Generate Mobile OTP to start password change process.
|||6.1.3.2|v1/account/change/passwd/byMobile|Change password via mobile for ABHA
|||6.1.3.3|v1/account/logout|Logout
6.2|Update Mobile|||
6.2.1|Update Mobile via Password|6.2.1.1|v2/account/change/mobile/new/generateOTP|Generate OTP on new mobile need to update existing account mobile number
|||6.2.1.2|v2/account/change/mobile/new/verifyOTP |Verify Mobile OTP to complete new mobile update verification.
|||6.2.1.3|v2/account/change/mobile/update/authentication|Change mobile number via password/aadhaar/existing mobile for ABHA
6.2.2|Update Mobile via Aadhaar Otp|6.2.2.1|v2/account/change/mobile/new/generateOTP|Generate OTP on new mobile need to update existing account mobile number
|||6.2.2.2|v2/account/change/mobile/new/verifyOTP |Verify Mobile OTP to complete new mobile update verification.
|||6.2.2.3|v2/account/change/mobile/aadhaar/generateOTP|Generate Aadhaar OTP on Registered mobile number to start mobile update
|||6.2.2.4|v2/account/change/mobile/update/authentication|Change mobile number via password/aadhaar/existing mobile for ABHA
6.2.3|Update Mobile via Mobile Otp|6.2.3.1|v2/account/change/mobile/new/generateOTP|Generate OTP on new mobile need to update existing account mobile number
|||6.2.3.2|v2/account/change/mobile/new/verifyOTP |Verify Mobile OTP to complete new mobile update verification.
|||6.2.3.3|v2/account/change/mobile/old/generateOTP|Generate Mobile OTP to start mobile update.
|||6.2.3.4|v2/account/change/mobile/update/authentication|Change mobile number via password/aadhaar/existing mobile for ABHA
6.3|Update Email|||
6.3.1|Update Email Via Aadhaar Otp|6.3.1.1|v2/account/email/verification/auth/initiate/send|Send the Email Verification Activation Link to verify the E-mail Address
|||6.3.1.2|v2/account/email/verification/auth/verify|Verfiy the user initiate the Activation Link
6.3.2|Update Email Via Mobile Otp|6.3.2.1|v2/account/email/verification/auth/initiate/send|Send the Email Verification Activation Link to verify the E-mail Address
|||6.3.2.2|v2/account/email/verification/auth/verify|Verfiy the user initiate the Activation Link
6.3.3|Update Email Via Password|6.3.3.1|v2/account/email/verification/auth/initiate/send|Send the Email Verification Activation Link to verify the E-mail Address
|||6.3.3.2|v2/account/email/verification/auth/verify|Verfiy the user initiate the Activation Link
||OPT OUT FEATURE|||
7|Delete ABHA|||
7.1|Delete ABHA using Aadhaar|7.1.1|v2/account/aadhaar/generateOTP|Generate Aadhaar OTP on Registered for link account with aadhar number
|||7.1.2|v2/account/profile/delete|Delete account
7.2|Delete ABHA using Mobile |7.2.1|v2/account/mobile/generateOTP|Generate Mobile OTP to start mobile txn.
|||7.2.2|v2/account/profile/delete|Delete account
7.3|Delete ABHA using password|7.3.1|v2/account/profile/delete|Delete account
8|Deactivate ABHA|||
8.1|Deactivate ABHA using Aadhaar|8.1.1|v2/account/aadhaar/generateOTP|Generate Aadhaar OTP on Registered for link account with aadhar number
|||8.1.2|v2/account/profile/deactivate|Deactivate the account using mobile or aadhaar otp.
8.2|Deactivate ABHA using Mobile |8.2.1|v2/account/mobile/generateOTP|Generate Mobile OTP to start mobile txn.
|||8.2.2|v2/account/profile/deactivate|Deactivate the account using mobile or aadhaar otp.
8.3|Deactivate ABHA using password|8.3|v2/account/profile/deactivate|Deactivate the account using mobile or aadhaar otp.

