+++
title = "Download ABHA Card"
date = 2023-03-16T09:30:25+05:30
weight = 5
chapter = true
pre = "<b>2.1.5 </b>"
+++


# Download ABHA Card

|  Applicable To | HMIS / LMIS (PVT)| Government Health App| 
|-------------------------------|:----------------------:|:--------------------:|
|   Download ABHA Card |{{% badge style="blue"%}}Mandatory{{% /badge %}}|{{% badge style="blue"%}}Mandatory{{% /badge %}}| 

## Functionality Overview

PHR Applications must display the ABHA QR code inside their apps. Users can show this QR Code at Health Facilities and have it scanned during registration.

During assisted enrolment for ABHA number, the user should be provided with a printed ABHA card that can be shown by the user for subsequent visits for rapid registration.


## Test Cases:

The following test cases are applicable to All the stakeholders.

S.No.|Functionality|Test Case|Steps To Be Executed|
|--|----- | ----- | ----- |
1|{{% badge style="blue" %}}Mandatory for Pivate{{% /badge %}} View and Download ABHA details (If integrators is generating ABHA card) (CRT_ABHA_114)|System must have a provision to View / Download ABHA card |1. System should show the user their ABHA Card 2. ABHA Card should be generated by API and should contain: ABHA Number (Mandatory), User Photo(Optional), ABHA QR code, date of birth and gender, ABHA Address
2|{{% badge %}}Optional for Pivate{{% /badge %}}  View and Download ABHA details.(If integrators  is not  generating ABHA card)  (CRT_ABHA_115) **Note:** Either of the test cases CRT_ABHA_114 or CRT_ABHA_115 is mandatory for Governement |  If Integrator is not generating ABHA card. | If Integrator is not generating ABHA card then they print the mentioned information on their own card: ABHA Number (Mandatory), ABHA Address


## API Information 

**Get Quick Response code in PNG format**

API Accepts Auth Token and then returns Account Info for QR Code.

**BASE URL:** https://healthidsbx.abdm.gov.in/api

{{< swaggermin src="/abdm-docs/Yaml/abdm-abha-service-1_0.yml" api="GET /v1/account/qrCode$" >}}

**Generate ABHA Card in PDF Format**

API Accepts Auth Token and then Returns Account Details for PDF format.

**BASE URL:** https://healthidsbx.abdm.gov.in/api

{{< swaggermin src="/abdm-docs/Yaml/abdm-abha-service-1_0.yml" api="GET /v1/account/getCard$" >}}

**Generate ABHA card SVG**

API Accepts Auth Token and then Returns Account Details for SVG format.

**BASE URL:** https://healthidsbx.abdm.gov.in/api

{{< swaggermin src="/abdm-docs/Yaml/abdm-abha-service-1_0.yml" api="GET /v1/account/getSvgCard$" >}}

**Generate ABHA card PNG**

API Accepts Auth Token and then Returns Account Details for PNG format.

**BASE URL:** https://healthidsbx.abdm.gov.in/api

{{< swaggermin src="/abdm-docs/Yaml/abdm-abha-service-1_0.yml" api="GET /v1/account/getPngCard$" >}}

